---
layout: post
title: "What's New in Perl 5.30"
date: 2019-05-31
---
# NAME
    perldelta - what is new for perl v5.30.0

# DESCRIPTION
    This document describes differences between the 5.28.0 release and the
    5.30.0 release.

    If you are upgrading from an earlier release such as 5.26.0, first read
    perl5280delta, which describes differences between 5.26.0 and 5.28.0.

## Notice
    sv_utf8_(downgrade|decode) are no longer marked as experimental. [perl
    #133788] <https://rt.perl.org/Ticket/Display.html?id=133788>.

## Core Enhancements
  Limited variable length lookbehind in regular expression pattern matching is now experimentally supported
    Using a lookbehind assertion (like "(?<=foo?)" or "(?<!ba{1,9}r)"
    previously would generate an error and refuse to compile. Now it
    compiles (if the maximum lookbehind is at most 255 characters), but
    raises a warning in the new "experimental::vlb" warnings category. This
    is to caution you that the precise behavior is subject to change based
    on feedback from use in the field.

    See "(?<=pattern)" in perlre and "(?<!pattern)" in perlre.

  The upper limit "n" specifiable in a regular expression quantifier of the form "{m,n}" has been doubled to 65534
    The meaning of an unbounded upper quantifier "{m,}" remains unchanged.
    It matches 2**31 - 1 times on most platforms, and more on ones where a C
    language short variable is more than 4 bytes long.

  Unicode 12.1 is supported
    Because of a change in Unicode release cycles, Perl jumps from Unicode
    10.0 in Perl 5.28 to Unicode 12.1 in Perl 5.30.

    For details on the Unicode changes, see
   
 <https://www.unicode.org/versions/Unicode11.0.0/> for 11.0;

    <https://www.unicode.org/versions/Unicode12.0.0/> for 12.0; and

    <https://www.unicode.org/versions/Unicode12.1.0/> for 12.1. (Unicode

    12.1 differs from 12.0 only in the addition of a single character, that
    for the new Japanese era name.)

    The Word_Break property, as in past Perl releases, remains tailored to
    behave more in line with expectations of Perl users. This means that
    sequential runs of horizontal white space characters are not broken
    apart, but kept as a single run. Unicode 11 changed from past versions
    to be more in line with Perl, but it left several white space characters
    as causing breaks: TAB, NO BREAK SPACE, and FIGURE SPACE (U+2007). We
    have decided to continue to use the previous Perl tailoring with regards
    to these.

  Wildcards in Unicode property value specifications are now partially supported

    You can now do something like this in a regular expression pattern

     qr! \p{nv= /(?x) \A [0-5] \z / }!

    which matches all Unicode code points whose numeric value is between 0
    and 5 inclusive. So, it could match the Thai or Bengali digits whose
    numeric values are 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5.

    This marks another step in implementing the regular expression features
    the Unicode Consortium suggests.

    Most properties are supported, with the remainder planned for 5.32.
    Details are in "Wildcards in Property Values" in perlunicode.

  qr'\N{name}' is now supported
    Previously it was an error to evaluate a named character "\N{...}"
    within a single quoted regular expression pattern (whose evaluation is
    deferred from the normal place). This restriction is now removed.

  Turkic UTF-8 locales are now seamlessly supported
    Turkic languages have different casing rules than other languages for
    the characters "i" and "I". The uppercase of "i" is LATIN CAPITAL LETTER
    I WITH DOT ABOVE (U+0130); and the lowercase of "I" is LATIN SMALL
    LETTER DOTLESS I (U+0131). Unicode furnishes alternate casing rules for
    use with Turkic languages. Previously, Perl ignored these, but now, it
    uses them when it detects that it is operating under a Turkic UTF-8
    locale.

  It is now possible to compile perl to always use thread-safe locale operations.

    Previously, these calls were only used when the perl was compiled to be
    multi-threaded. To always enable them, add

     -Accflags='-DUSE_THREAD_SAFE_LOCALE'

    to your Configure flags.

  Eliminate opASSIGN macro usage from core

    This macro is still defined but no longer used in core

  "-Drv" now means something on "-DDEBUGGING" builds
    Now, adding the verbose flag ("-Dv") to the "-Dr" flag turns on all
    possible regular expression debugging.

## Incompatible Changes
  
Assigning non-zero to $[ is fatal

    Setting $[ to a non-zero value has been deprecated since Perl 5.12 and
    now throws a fatal error. See "Assigning non-zero to $[ is fatal" in
    perldeprecation.

  Delimiters must now be graphemes

    See "Use of unassigned code point or non-standalone grapheme for a
    delimiter." in perldeprecation

  Some formerly deprecated uses of an unescaped left brace "{" in
regular expression patterns are now illegal

    But to avoid breaking code unnecessarily, most instances that issued a
    deprecation warning, remain legal and now have a non-deprecation warning
    raised. See "Unescaped left braces in regular expressions" in
    perldeprecation.

  Previously deprecated sysread()/syswrite() on :utf8 handles is now fatal
    Calling sysread(), syswrite(), send() or recv() on a ":utf8" handle,
    whether applied explicitly or implicitly, is now fatal. This was
    deprecated in perl 5.24.

    There were two problems with calling these functions on ":utf8" handles:

    *   All four functions only paid attention to the ":utf8" flag. Other
        layers were completely ignored, so a handle with
        ":encoding(UTF-16LE)" layer would be treated as UTF-8. Other layers,
        such as compression are completely ignored with or without the
        ":utf8" flag.

    *   sysread() and recv() would read from the handle, skipping any
        validation by the layers, and do no validation of their own. This
        could lead to invalidly encoded perl scalars.

    [perl #125760] <https://rt.perl.org/Ticket/Display.html?id=125760>.

  my() in false conditional prohibited
    Declarations such as "my $x if 0" are no longer permitted.

    [perl #133543] <https://rt.perl.org/Ticket/Display.html?id=133543>.



----
For complete changes, you can run

```bash
$ perldoc perldelta
```

On your linux machine
